he was a morbidly obese surgeon destined
for an operating table in an early death
now he's a rebel MD who is fabulously
fit and fighting to make America healthy
again
this is stay off my operating table with
Dr Philip ovedia
welcome back this is the stay off my
operating table podcast with Dr Philip
ovadia I'm the co-host Jack healed and I
am absolutely thrilled today with uh
this guest you've landed for us Phil uh
give us a a brief introduction about why
Dr Seyfried is here and we'll just get
this conversation going
sure thing we are really uh honored
today to be joined by Dr Thomas Seyfried
uh Dr Seyfried is a professor uh in the
biology department at Boston College and
really has been at the Forefront of
research for metabolic diseases
um for you know almost 40 years now uh
so you know really excited to hear
um what Dr C freed can share with us
um his uh career and his research has
increasingly focused on cancer as a
metabolic disease he has a definitive uh
textbook on the subject written about 10
years ago on cancer as a metabolic
disease so uh welcome Professor sea
freed and if you wouldn't mind starting
just with a little bit more background
as to how you got interested in
metabolic diseases and kind of where
that has led you to today
well thank you very much it's uh it's
great to have the opportunity to share
with you uh some of my ideas on
um cancer metabolism and uh the
metabolic underpinnings for a variety of
different uh of different situations
um well when I was at Yale University uh
35 years ago I guess
epilepsy was the Prime
area of research in the in the neurology
the clinical Department of Neurology
and folks said you know
um if you want to hang around I was you
bet you better do something with
epilepsy so we had been studying uh
gangliosides glycosphingolipids in the
brains of mice and uh I had also
recognized that there were a lot of
mouse models of epilepsy so this fit
dovetailed wonderfully into the
um uh the idea at that time that there
might be genes that could control
epileptic seizures and we could use mice
as models for this so we were mapping
epilepsy genes
um you know one of the we did a number
of studies on this uh published many
many papers with Gil Glasser who was the
uh chairman of the neurology department
at that time
um and uh I I I did a lot of that and
and biochemistry of gangliosides related
to epilepsy related to brain development
and I took that entire project with me
when I took the faculty position at
Boston College in in 85 and we built a
big program here mapping epilepsy genes
and uh looking at glycolipids and things
like this but um it turned out that even
though you were mapping these epilepsy
genes published papers in science and
wherever
um it really it really everybody liked
bringing everything down to the
molecular level but it wasn't helping
anybody in the clinic
um and then one of my students said to
me hey there there there's a big
um interest in ketogenic diets for
managing epilepsy well when I was at
Yale I saw that potential I wrote an
internal Grant uh to the medical school
to study ketogenic diet and epilepsy
and uh they turned it down there's
nobody's interested in this you know
this is like okay so I I not having that
much background I just said okay well
they don't they don't care about that
then one of my students when I came to
BC they said oh uh Jim Abrams uh of the
Charlie found who started the Charlie
Foundation he was a movie producer he
made moved the airplane movies they were
kind of comedies and things and Jim's
Son charlie
uh had a profound epilepsy and found out
that they brought him to Johns Hopkins
and pretty much uh cured him he was he
was almost dead from epileptic seizures
and at Johns Hopkins
um they managed his seizure uh quite
well and Jim says what the hell's going
on here and then they made the movie
with his friend Meryl Streep first Do no
harm so this this kind of uh Kindle a
lot of interest uh mainly because of
Jim's notarized celebrity I guess you
could say and the next thing you know
um he's pushing this like why don't we
know more about this ketogenic diet for
epilepsy so my student went out there
here uh Mariana Tran and
um she came back and said whoa you know
this I sent the student out there
because I felt that you know people
aren't going to be interested in keto
then all of a sudden Jim Abrams like
sparked this whole field uh and then we
got into it so we had all these epilepsy
models here
um some of the best and I started
putting them on ketogenic diets uh
calorie restriction and all of a sudden
the seizures are managed and it was
interesting because I I'm gonna I want
to pause explain what managed means uh
that seizures would go away
okay I like that kind of management okay
the man the management was the animals
stopped seizing
okay
the interesting thing is is that uh it
didn't make any difference uh what their
genetic problem was like oh this mouse
could have this genetic problem the
other Mouse could have another genetic
but when you put them on the ketogenic
diet it seemed like it didn't make any
difference and then the kids in the
clinic in the in the clinic all these
all these kids have epilepsy for a broad
range of reasons
um uh and uh John Freeman at the time
told me who was the he has since passed
away he was the Guru at uh at the in the
neurology department at uh at Johns
Hopkins and he was telling me he said
Tom you know we don't understand how you
can take kids that have epilepsy from a
bang on the head a kid gets a viral
infection some kid has an inherited
thing and you put him on this diet and
all of a sudden you get management so uh
and then I said what's the mechanism and
they said well I don't know it has
something to do with ketones and so I
said what about glucose so we we did
ketogenic diets uh with and without
calorie restriction and that we found
out if you did calorie restriction in
the mouse is like water only fasting
well Wilder in 1921 who developed the
ketogenic diet at Mayo Clinic
said that whoa if you take epileptic
patients any of them and put them on a
fasting water-only diet the seizures
would go away
so what the hell was that so then Wilder
said when you starve people blood sugar
goes down and the body starts mobilizing
fats for these water-soluble Ketone
bodies so he thought that it had
something to do with elevation of Ketone
bodies so uh and that's where it was
kind of in the 1920s and then all of a
sudden these epilepsy drugs came on the
market and ketogenic diet went out the
window so nobody was really talking
about it and in the 1970s when I was at
Yale I kind of like I looked into this
and I said it's kind of interesting ah
nobody's interested in that stuff
anymore so so Jim Abrams the movie guy
with his son Charlie rekindled this
whole ketogenic thing and there was only
one little group of Johns Hopkins that
was putzing around and that little group
saved saved Charlie's life they made the
movie first Do no harm and all of a
sudden everything exploded in the
epilepsy field in the epilepsy field so
um you know we were doing all this
cancer stuff because I was looking at
gangliocytes in brain cancer
um a lot of cancers and gangliocides or
glycos finger lipids and we have a
strong Dynamic reputation in
glycol-swingolipid Biochemistry that's
where I got my PhD at the University of
Illinois and glycolipid biochemistry so
um you know we're looking at glycolipid
that's sugar fat yes yes so gangliocides
are famous mainly for Tay Sachs disease
okay there's a disease that are
specially mostly Jewish folks
um is Ashkenazi Jewish population the
the disease was recognized in the 1800s
and it affects
um uh mostly Ashkenazi Jews and uh it
causes an accumulation of these
gangliocides in the brain uh leading to
profound mental deterioration and and
death but we also were looking at these
same molecules for asking what the hell
do they do they're loaded in your brain
and we're trying to figure out what they
do so my research was focused on that
but in looking at cancer with
gangliosites we found all kinds of
abnormalities and gangly sides and brain
cancer you have to realize
a research project is not a straight a
route there's branches things excite you
for a few years you're losing interest
you can but there's a there's a
Continuum of branching off like a main a
main route so we were looking at gangly
sites in the brains of epileptic
patients as well uh epileptic mice we
will look at it at them at them for a
lot of reasons to figure out uh what
they what they might do but um and we
were looking at them in epilepsy and
then the next thing you know uh my
student comes back and says hey what
what about this ketogenic diet it's
unbelievable so I said let's put them on
the the mice that we had on ketogenic
diets but we did a calorie restricted
ketogenic diet and um calorie
restriction we've and then I published
this big paper
uh saying that uh I think the effect of
ketogenic diet works by lowering blood
sugar and elevating ketones at the same
time so I thought it was the dual
purpose of lowering glucose because why
John Freeman Yale at Johns Hopkins told
me he said Tom we can have kids managed
for weeks and weeks with managing their
seizures on a ketogenic diet no
breakthroughs beautiful management these
were kids that would have two or three
times seizures a day and now they
haven't had any for months and all they
do is take one little taste of the of
the sugar uh orange juice or a Coke or a
bite of a cake and within minutes
they're exploding back into an epileptic
seizure wow so so I said whoa so it and
glucose is spiked glucose becomes spiked
and even there was some child uh on the
Connecticut Shoreline who has managed
for almost a year and the parents called
uh John Freeman up in a panic uh Joey
just had a massive epileptic seizure uh
from what so we looked into it John did
it turned out that the he was in the Sun
and they took suntan lotion that had a
glucose base to it and the glucose went
through the skin and blew a big seizure
on this guy this little kid who had been
managed for a week months so we realized
then glucose can completely inactivate a
ketogenic diet real quick so uh even
though they're missed I'm I'm staggered
yeah no I we were all staggered so uh we
didn't realize how fast you could fall
out of the management by just elevating
glucose just a little bit yeah so the
question was it elevated ketones was it
the reduced glucose or was some
combination of these and to this day the
field of epilepsy and many of my
colleagues are still struggling to find
the mechanism by which a ketogenic diet
or low glucose or therapeutic fasting or
all these kinds of things can can manage
seizures
uh the cancer issue becomes far more
clear and understandable than the
epilepsy thing
so uh you know so when my student came
back and told me about this yeah we
started showing and then and then
Freeman told me
he said you know every now and then you
get a kid who likes the fat you know you
have to take the ketogenic diet it was
like all kinds of triglyceride oils and
you know all this kind of stuff and most
kids hate it they cry and screaming you
know the parents sometimes have to put a
food tube in because the kid doesn't
want to eat the stuff and but his
seizures are nicely managed
and then Freeman tell me he said um he
says Tom one out of a thousand kids for
some reason loves to eat the oil and
take of much of it in his in his body as
he can and he said those kids never have
seizure management he says if they'll
like the diet you don't get managed from
it it's the kids who don't want to eat
it's like a calorie restriction so it's
the calorie restriction you don't eat
much when somebody's giving you a lot of
fat so you don't eat much and all of a
sudden your seizures are managed and
these kids that love to eat all the fat
had high they would get seizures and
what we found is we gave the mice all
the fat they wanted and we couldn't we
couldn't stop their seizures nor could
we stop their cancer so it turns out
when you eat too much fat you get
insulin insensitivity and you maintain
high blood sugar levels I mean the body
responds to all these different things
you just got to know
um this is I'm telling you in a nutshell
decades and Decades of research that we
have done published papers and looked
into all this stuff
um so I know you might think bewildered
as well I gotta I gotta I want to drill
down into something that I didn't
understand that you just said
if you get too much fat yeah you get
into a state of insulin insensitivity
that's right the blood the blood's
completely contrary to my understanding
of how that mechanism works well you're
overwhelming yeah you're overwhelming
the body with so much energy and fat in
other words you're uh fasting and
ketogenic diets should always be uh in a
restricted state so uh we we we
naturally get into ketosis by not eating
so water only fasting and that's why
Wilder built the ketogenic diet in the
first place because people could only do
water only fasting for a short period of
time before you'd go into starvation
which is a pathological condition
so therapeutic fasting or fasting is
healthy starvation is pathological so
Wilder said is there a way we can keep
the benefits of fasting longer and he
said why don't we get a diet that has
all fats and very little carbohydrates
and minimal protein and then we can keep
the can the epileptic patient in a
stable condition for a longer period of
time but if you eat too much fat you get
too much energy and then the then you
can't push the blood sugar into the
tissues insulin becomes elevated and you
get this insulin insensitivity so the
key the ketogenic diet is to represent
therapeutic fasting not overeating
massive amounts of fat so uh so it's a
so people say oh this is this is this is
deep stuff this is really good oh yeah I
just I want to repeat it so that it
sinks in
um what you don't know and this is part
of the reason I'm so excited
I've had four epileptic seizures out of
nowhere in the last three months so this
this has very
um uh pertinent it's very pertinent to
me so
an excess of fat
um when you're when you go into ketosis
your body's burning fat for energy
um however
an excess
is providing
so much energy
that the cells which would the the
mechanism by which we would ordinarily
absorb insult where we make use of
insulin in our cells
um to get sugar from the blood into the
cells becomes desensitized and as a
result of that even though we're not
ingesting too much sugar
because of this triggered response of an
excess of energy from from ketones
our blood sugar goes up am I getting
that right yeah well here's the
situation the the ketogen you're having
a lot of medium chain try triglycerides
uh okay well that's a glycerol backbone
so two glycerol molecules can be
conjugated into a single glucose
molecule
so so what you have is an overall just
went on yeah the overabundance of of
glycerol backbones and the process of
gluconeogenesis is pumping out a lot of
glucose from the liver at the same time
you're saturating your body full of fat
and that creates so when you look at the
blood work of a mouse pounding down
massive amounts of fat you'd say this
mouse should have cardiovascular disease
this mouse should be the most unhealthy
thing on the planet and that's what you
see if you look at a blood profile and a
mouse that's eating ketogenic diet uh
uninhibited and he likes it like the kid
that would not get benefit from epilepsy
their blood work looks like crap it's
terrible so you have to now here's the
situation you got to be very careful you
have to know the difference between
different species
the human being the basal metabolic rate
how we how we burn calories over a
period of time in a state of rest is
seven times slower than that of a mouse
or a mouse is seven times faster than
that of a human we have an internal
regulatory system about eating fat
uh if we eat a little too much fat we
send a signal uh that the hormone
cholecystokinin is triggered which
impacts the 10th cranial nerve which
shuts down the appetite Center so when
you eat a little too much fat humans say
I haven't enough I've had enough I don't
want any more the mouse the cholecystic
kind of in the mouse doesn't work as
well as it does in human so the mouse
could possibly eat because they're
eating 20 percent of their body weight a
day so you have to be careful a 40
calorie restriction in the mouse is the
same as a human water only fasting so 24
hours of a 40 calorie restriction in a
mouse is like one week of water only
fasting in a human so we have to balance
what we see in the mouse with what we
see in the human and then we mesh the
physiological changes together to come
up to a better understanding of how
humans are going to respond to these
diet manipulations that we do in the
mouse so you really have to have a a
greater under standing of both Mouse
physiology and human physiology so that
you can blend you can make predictions
from pre-clinical studies into the human
based on knowing the differences in
basal metabolic rate now I learned a lot
I learned a lot about this from George
Cahill
and Richard Veach these are are giants
in the field of energy metabolism
uh uh Veach was uh Hans krebs's last
graduate student of the Krebs cycle the
TCA cycle Veach himself was a member of
the National Academy he was a big giant
in the field of understanding so he was
a good friend of mine he passed away two
years ago and then George Cahill the the
guy who studies starvation in man was
the leading expert in the world on human
starvation so both of these guys uh uh
were friends who would come to my office
and I would visit them and we would talk
for hours about human physiology
ketogenic diets fasting starvation and
all this kind of stuff so I had the I
had the luxury of discussing my ideas
and learning from two giants in the
field who themselves have created the
field
so
um and I was always so I always go to
The Experts the guys who and eventually
then you become the expert only because
the knowledge transfer from one expert
to the other and then you absorb what
they know and then you and then you move
the field forward yourself so my
platform uh was based on the knowledge
base of giants in the field of energy
metabolism brain brain you know all this
kind of stuff so
um so it so so that you know we started
to think what's the difference between
man and mouse for for this uh epilepsy
managing seizures well a lot of my good
close friends are all at the epilepsy
field you know the Charlie Foundation
exploded now as a source of managing
epilepsy with metabolic approaches so so
um and then I moved once I I moved my
research to the say well if calorie
restriction works so good on on epilepsy
what does it do to cancer and and um uh
Peyton Rouse can you believe this yeah
the Nobel Prize back uh for his work on
calorie restriction in mice with cancer
he showed that calorie restriction
reduced angiogenesis inflammation all
kinds of stuff and I I said whoa so how
what's the mechanism of action of of how
calorie restriction and ketogenic diets
would manage cancer
uh like what what's going on now so I
deviated I turned the turn the direction
of the program away from from epilepsy
uh to uh to the cancer problem
so uh um Lyndon nebling uh a a nursing
student uh at Case Western Reserve
published the paper in 1995. she took uh
three little kids with uh inoperable
brain cancer or brain cancer that was
operated on that didn't get it all out
and these kids were brutalized radiation
and chemo and and she put him on a
ketogenic diet and both both of the kids
that she published uh uh one of them was
so brain damaged uh that they had to
have special education the other person
got got well and they all thought that
these little kids were going to be dead
they gave them they gave her to her
because they were considered hopeless
cases and she rescued both kids
um with the ketogenic diet and in that
article she said uh Anna Warburg years
ago said that uh these tumor cells need
a lot of glucose so one of the ways you
can manage cancer you should be able to
reduce the fuel that's driving the
cancer and you know I've always heard to
Warburg everybody does in off
conversations and things like this and
then I said what who's this guy War I
mean what did he really really do this
was like around 1999 maybe 2000 I
started to look into into what the hell
Warburg was all about and then I started
looking in more and more and we were
seeing some really good results on
calorie restriction and restricted
ketogenic diets for tumors and I was
looking at gangly sides and all this
kind of stuff and then I said what the
hell man so I started looking deeply
into what Warburg did read all of his
papers had the German papers translated
into English
and then I said orberg was the 30s is
that right he he started in the 20s okay
on this uh and he uh he received the
Nobel Prize in 1931 for his discovery of
cytochrome C the the the key enzyme
necessary for oxidative phosphorylation
generating energy through oxfast he
never received the Nobel Prize for his
work on cancer uh he had been nominated
uh but the Hitler uh during the War
years uh said no German could receive uh
Nobel Prize Sam Apple did a nice book uh
recently called ravenous on the history
of Otto Warburg
um so anyway I you know I'm looking at
the the I'm you know I'm switching from
epilepsy to cancer biochemistry uh back
and forth and back and forth a lot of
students coming through we developed the
best animal models pre-clinical models
for cancer we Define what the nature of
the metastatic cell was uh we know what
how metastasis Works uh now we know uh
what what drives real quickly real
quickly
um
describe that the the how metastasis
actually works well maybe you're talking
to a Layman here yeah yeah yeah well you
know and and I apologize for flipping
from one concept to another
um
because you know we I offer a whole
semester classes on on these kinds of
things and you know we're here on a
short discussion and uh you know I I and
I appreciate you stopping uh what we
found is that the metastatic cancer cell
shares uh characteristics with an immune
cell in our body called the macrophage
it's part of the immune system right uh
they're called macrophage means big
eater
um and macrophages are designed to
protect our body and to facilitate wound
healing so if we get a cut or a lesion
uh these monocytes immature macrophages
come out of the bloodstream harm a home
right into the the damage they kill
bacteria uh and they help heal the wound
together with the fibroblasts and the
micro environment make a scar clean up
the mess and then they move back into
local lymph nodes and hang out until
they're until the body is sure that this
damage is is healed so they have a
natural ability to enter and exit
tissues they exist in the bloodstream
and when something goes wrong in a
particular tissue that monocytes will
come out of the bloodstream uh go right
through the tissue and work together
with another group of Mac that call
resident macrophages in in every organ
in our body has these resident they're
like the police the local police
department and uh if there's a local
tiny like some sell up and dies this
thing will hear will take his the cart
card away is his carcass and a little
kind of a insult we have the local
police department which are resident
macrophages in all tissues to handle the
problem and if the problem gets out of
hand then the the militia that are in
your bloodstream the monostartes come in
to help the local guys clean up the mess
so these macrophages are come from the
blood the bone marrow and they go into
the bloodstream and then they recycle
the ones that the police department
retires periodically and they replace
new policemen with old get the old guys
so you have liver macrophages called
Cooper cells you get alveolar Max in the
liver in the in the lung and you got
microglia in the brain these are all the
local guys
so what we discovered was that all the
metastatic cancers that humans have
breast cancer colon cancer they all have
these characteristics of macrophages so
if you look at a brain cancer a colon
cancer a breast cancer and you look at
the cells they're all like card carrying
macrophages so I said what the hell is
going on with this and they're the only
cell in the body that's genetically
programmed to enter into exit tissues so
what you do is you get a a metabolic
Corruption of the mitochondria in one of
these macrophages and it becomes the
neoplastic cancer cell so
um now you have other cancer cells that
grow like crazy but they can't spread so
these are called stem cell cancers so a
lot of people study they grow rapidly
but they can't leave the local area
they're they're they don't have the
genetic apparatus to exit and enter the
bloodstream however when you have a
tumor it may it's composed of all these
different kinds of cells it's just not
stem cell proliferation it's these uh
metastatic macrophage proliferation so
you know people say oh cancer cells they
inhibit the immune so well they are the
damn immune system wake up people so
um and a lot of people don't want to
accept that because they're locked into
thinking about other things so we have
clearly defined what the origin of of
metastatic cancer is so I want to make
sure I understand
what you're saying is that
a cancer a macrophage gone bad yeah is
what a cancer is yeah we call them Rogue
macrophages
Road macrophages hijacking the immune
system to uh kind of work against us you
know and this this kind of leads into an
interesting fundamental you know uh
discussion around you know many
illnesses I mean heart disease cancer
um you know all of these common
illnesses that we're we're fighting
against these chronic illnesses and
whether they are you know at their root
metabolic problems
um which you know would then lead one to
believe that metabolic therapies and uh
changing the way we eat uh would be a
powerful tool against them versus you
know I would say the more maybe modern
concept that these are more structural
problems that can be treated with
surgery or that these are
um you know
uh basically uh deficiencies uh you know
uh that can be attacked with medications
um as opposed to these at their root
cause just being metabolic diseases and
I think you know you you've certainly
shown that very well you know in animal
models and of course there's always as
you said the the conversation about how
do we you know how well does that
translate to us as humans
um and how can we translate that into
clinical practice ultimately well we're
doing that
um because our we have two arms on our
program uh one is the pre-clinical arm
uh which which
um troubleshoots uh a lot of the things
that and uh that we think will work and
then we have the clinicians that are are
applying that in clinics or in small uh
groups of people humans will do a hell
of a lot better these metabolic
therapies than the mouse because the
basal metabolic rate is less slower so
we have a much greater a time to have
all of this work and the mouse
everything is like a supercharged
accelerated so uh but humans we can we
can uh adjust uh things and we can ask
the person how are you feeling now we
can't do that to the mouse uh we can
know whether he's looking sick or not
but we can't get a verbal feedback
but in humans we can and we can adjust
the therapies uh like uh we do that in
the mouse but we we don't get the verbal
feedback
um we can only say the guy looks like
he's healthy uh but with the person we
can do a lot more and it works I I'll
get into that because because the the
movement to uh manage cancer will be a
metabolic one
um there's a lot of firewalls that are
preventing us from moving in that
direction but but my first step is to
solidify the scientific basis for why
metabolic therapy should become the
standard of care for managing cancer but
in order to to do that you have to be on
a Bedrock of scientific evidence because
if the science tells us that this is the
way to go and you're not going in that
direction then there's something else
going going on here sure so you need to
know that the this the platform upon
which our approach for managing cancer
uh is based on hard science and evidence
is accumulating uh to show why metabolic
therapy for managing cancer will become
the standard of care it's just a matter
of time so we're focusing primarily on
brain cancer because the the situation
for that type of cancer is completely
abysmal there has been no major advance
in 100 years so in my latest paper like
we have glioblastomic it killed Ted
Kennedy it killed John McCain it killed
President Biden's son Beau and it killed
a lot of other people and these people
are all dying uh within uh 15 months to
two years and when you go back and look
at the literature in 1926 survival for
glioblastoma was 8 to 14 months in 2022
it's 8 to 16 months so in a hundred
years I mean we've got the web telescope
uh we've got all kinds of things that
have happened in technology in 100 years
and we haven't made a single advance in
glioblastoma
and I said what the hell is going on
with that you know this is an embar this
should be an embarrassment we we have
people that are willing to take their
lives they go to Oregon and they die
with dignity rather than going through
the therapy for glioblastoma I mean
Brittany Maynard did this she has a big
article in People magazine about her
decision to die rather than go through
the standard of care I mean this is a
this is a this shouldn't happen in 2022
so I wrote a paper uh several papers why
is this the case why have we made no
major advances and when you look at the
survival curve for all the patients with
glioblastoma it's like you you cannot
design experiments more consistent and
reproducible than how fast GBM patients
die after being diagnosed and the issue
is the issue is it's that it's the
treatment itself that's killing the
patients
um the treatment itself can you believe
this it's the radiation and the chemo
yes I can't believe it well yeah but I
have shown the scientific evidence to
support it I've shown how radiating the
human brain frees up massive amounts of
the two fuels that drive the
fermentation metabolism of the brain
cancer cells the cancer cells can't live
uh without fermentation which is energy
without oxygen all of us are breathing
we get our energy from the oxygen that
we breathe cancer cells don't use oxygen
they ferment so and again they're
macrophages they're really invasive ones
and what do they eat so all I have to
say is what do the cancer cells eat that
keeps them alive because without energy
nothing can grow
and people say how do you know take
cyanide see how fast you die you write
Cyanide and you're dead instantly why
you stopped all energy metabolism in the
body and you're dying cancer cells live
in cyanide so clearly they don't they're
not respiring so so Warburg showed that
years ago I mean you could pour cyanide
on a tumor and it didn't kill the tube
it kills the kills the host but not the
tumor so uh cancer cells don't need
oxygen so they ferment so what they what
do you ferment you ferment glucose and
glutamine those are the only two major
fuels and we have evidence we published
evidence on this okay so if they need
glucose and glutamine how do you stop
them you stop them by taking away
glucose and glutamine and transitioning
them over to Ketone bodies they can't
burn Ketone bodies because you need good
oxygen metabolism to burn Ketone body so
what do we do to the cancer patient we
irradiate them okay so when you
irradiate somebody's brain you free up
massive amounts of glutamine in the
micro environment and because your brain
swells from the radiation you give high
dose steroids and steroids raise the
blood sugar level and your blood's like
almost like a diabetic level so the
glucose is pouring in from the
bloodstream the radiation causes blood
sugar to go up anyway and then you then
you're freeing up all this glutamine in
the brain and then they wonder why
everybody's dead I mean it's so clear
and then when we took one guy uh Pablo
Kelly who has a podcast and said uh
Pablo said I don't want any of that crap
he said I I'll just assume take life
into my own hands so we put them on
metabolic therapy he's out he's out
eight years with a he was considered
terminal and everybody says oh he's a
fluke
yeah okay uh he's a fluke right well how
many other flukes would you like to have
because we have them coming down the
pike one after another you know as I
said if you if if you threw uh 100 guys
uh 99 guys out of an airplane with no
parachute you put a parachute on one guy
and you say oh he's a fluke you know
he's not a fluke
and you don't want to use that you don't
want to use that now or two common
approaching uh
yeah you know one of the other
interesting things that uh I think I've
learned from you is that um you know in
in cancer treatment we're increasingly
focused on uh mutations and you know we
have uh all these uh drugs coming out
that are targeting you know specific
mutations of certain lines of cancer
cells and I know one of the things that
you have uh you know theorized and and
and proven in a lot of ways is that
these mutations are the downstream
effect of the altered metabolism yeah
they are so and how do we know that
because uh the cancer cells produce
tremendous amounts of reactive oxygen
species r-o-s these are uh uh uh
radicals they damage they damage DNA uh
uh RNA proteins lipids and this kind of
stuff well they pour out of these cancer
cells and they cause the mutations uh
they're carcinogenic and mutagen so the
damaged cell respiration in time it
happens it's a protracted event so the
cell tries to stay alive by respiring
and that is the respiration capacity
becomes lower and lower with the
compensation from fermentation because
with that you got to have energy so
where's the energy coming from in our
bodies it comes from oxidative
phosphorylation we breathe air we
breathe air we exhale CO2 the oxygen in
the air is giving us the energy to
produce ATP uh the cancer cell is
getting it gradually loses the ability
to generate energy from oxygen and
acquires the ability to generate energy
from fermentation which is energy
without oxygen and I I just I wanna I
wanna underline that make sure I got
this a cancer cell which is we've
already determined is a rogue macrophage
well that's the metastatic the
metastatic one you have a lot of stem
cell cancer cells that that grow like
crazy but they can't metastasize so yeah
they'll Kill You by mass effects uh but
they don't spread but in the real world
you have both kinds of cells okay and
and the commonality of these two types
yeah is they have lost the capacity to
utilize oxygen for energy production and
as an Adaptive response yes
they instead move to fermentation yes
yes
and then they have to say well what are
they fermenting
so we went through all of the fuels that
a cancer cell can ferment it's only two
the sugar glucose and the amino acid
glutamine nothing else
so now that tells us the strategy for
killing these things
um I just want to I want to make sure
that that I'm not mistaken here this is
common for all types of cancers
yes
it's why and I can tell you why because
the mitochondria are defective in all
types of cancers all cancers can live
without oxygen why because the
mitochondria that's responsible for
generating energy with oxygen is
defective in all cancers not so we go
after brain cancer only because they
have nothing there's nothing to say that
oh we have something better no you don't
you don't have anything
so all we do is show that we can take
GBM patients and keep them alive far
longer than what would have been
expected do you and people say do you
think that will work in other kids of
course it will I mean we have brain
breast cancer we have colon cancer we
have all these cancers that all do the
same thing they all ferment now this is
that this is why it's so dangerous it's
dangerous because it's a very simple
approach that can manage all major
cancers uh regardless of their genetic
mutations which are largely irrelevant
they're all Downstream stuff so all this
Precision medicine uh all these things
you hear it's all to be to be
perfectly honest with you I mean and is
it working no we have 1600 people a day
dying from cancer in the United States
every day and it's getting worse year in
and year out and then you say how many
of these poor people are dying from the
treatments and a lot of them are dying
from the from the treatments so so
you're saying is you're treating cancer
with with therapies that are not based
on the solid science that underlies why
the cancer is disregulating growth and
the first place so so uh and you know
who understands this the common guy the
layperson can understand this far better
than the oncologists working at the top
medical schools it's a mind blower I
mean you can't you can't write a script
like this right and then when and then
when the common guy goes into Dana
Farber and the indices I want metabolic
therapy oh that doesn't work and besides
it we don't know about it well for
crying out how are you working on a
disease but you have no clue as to the
biological basis for the disease that
you're working on uh 1600 people a day
dead from cancer so uh when you when you
start to put it it's a tragedy once we
realize once people understand what I'm
saying and act upon it and we develop it
like Dr claffey and all these other guys
that are going to be out there we're
writing up huge protocols now uh
instruction manual basically how to
treat cancer patients with metabolic
therapy and once you start seeing
everybody like Pablo Kelly coming out
and saying hey I should have been dead
I'm getting the family here what's going
on I didn't lose my hair I didn't be
bleeding gums I mean whoa everybody say
I want that can I have that let me have
that you know why you want to go in and
get your brainer radiant this is nuts I
mean nobody should ever have their brain
irradiated this is nuts you don't do
that to another human being so uh uh you
know and that's because of the lack of
knowledge so these guys lack knowledge
they're cluelessness to the underlying
mechanisms that drive in the cancer and
they create and they're using therapies
that actually make it worse and the
evidence is all in the literature
perfectly death everybody's dying at the
approximately the same time rarely do
you get any survivors what the hell for
45 years we're doing this a hundred
years in no progress and you continue to
do the same stupid thing that you've
been doing over and over again and your
resistance is something new you tell me
the common guy you tell me what's wrong
with this picture
I'm going to ask you now to stop talking
to me yeah and speak directly to this
audience
of of people who are are just interested
in getting and staying healthy
well speak directly to them about what
they should do what actions they should
take based on your research what you
have proven so we have yeah we have come
to realize
that glioblastoma and all major cancers
for that matter are the result of a
chronic disruption of energy through the
mitochondria so the focal point of
cancer and health by the way is
mitochondrial function the function of
the little organelle in our cells that
regulate the cell cycle that regulate
the energy metabolism if you can keep
your mitochondria healthy
if you can keep your mitochondria
healthy you should be able to avoid
cardiovascular disease cancer type 2
diabetes all of the different kinds of
Alzheimer's disease 40 percent of
Alzheimer's diseases diet lifestyle
issues the if you can if you can keep
your mitochondria healthy you have the
possibility of significantly reducing
the risk for cancer diabetes
cardiovascular you name it this is why
it is very very dangerous about what I'm
saying because this this doesn't take as
as Philip said you don't have to treat
with drugs if you know how to keep your
mitochondria healthy you can avoid most
of the stuff that they're pouring on us
the problem is the diet and lifestyle
that we have
puts us in a in a in a in the path to
having all these diseases I mean we lack
exercise I mean we don't even have to
get out of the we don't even have to
unask the car to go in and get a
hamburger they hand it through the
window so you can drive up and you get a
donut or a hamburger you don't have to
leave the car I mean I mean where we
have become so sedentary uh we have we
have become so filled with Foods uh that
are poorly nutritious and high in
glycemic index damaging mitochondria and
putting us at risk for all of these
different uh what we call chronic
diseases of Western Civilization so
people say well what am I going to do go
back and live like a caveman
um you know the caveman didn't have
hamburgers and fraps and donut jelly
filled donuts and all this kind of stuff
I also didn't have cancer
they never Albert Schweitzer the great
uh physician humanitarian was remarked
about these African tribes not having in
cancer they you know they have they have
infections and other things but they
didn't have cancer same with the Inuits
the eskimos they didn't have cancer many
of the Aboriginal peoples never had
cancer was like there wasn't even a word
in the vocabulary now it's like uh
overtaking heart in in China today
cancer has replaced heart disease as the
number one killer of their population
and and what what is responsible for
this it's the diet and lifestyle so I I
think I'm not going to tell people you
know don't eat jelly donuts and pieces I
I just I I just would say know that uh
it's okay but every now and then you
might want to do something that will
give your mitochondria uh uh give your
mitochondria a break give your digestive
system a break what do you do you skip a
couple of meals every now and then you
know do more exercise
that'll reduce the risk significantly
but when you're told that cancer is a
genetic disease or you have a gene
that's all because there's no
there's no Gene that we know of that's a
hundred percent penetrant so Gene is a
risk factor for sure some people inherit
like bracha one what does bracha one do
it damages mitochondria but I'm only 50
percent of the women that have bracket
one really get breast what about all the
ones that have the Bronco one that don't
get breast cancer you know or Leaf
Romani or or all of these other
inherited risk fat people oh it must be
genetic no it's not the gene is just
simply a risk factor as is a chemical
carcinogen as intermittent hypoxia as
oncogenic viruses they all attack
mitochondria putting you at risk for
replacing oxfos respiration with
fermentation and if you can keep your
brain cells healthy in an Alzheimer's
disease you can prevent neuronal death
so again you keep now there are some
genes that will give you Alzheimer's
disease which you can't do anything
about but there's only about five
percent of these people the vast
majority of people are getting
Alzheimer's disease from the same kinds
of things that will give them cancer and
obesity type 2 diabetes and all this
other stuff obesity has now moved in the
head of smoking as the number one risk
factor for cancer Jesus Jesus so you
stop smoking get fat and get care so
cancer is still there you just got to be
for it from smoking now you get it from
too much fat
now you have less fun as you get there
I mean when you understand
Theology and biochemistry of what's
going
it's just astonishing and then you try
to tell the medical establishment this
is what's happening and this ad out you
don't know what you're talking about
okay so so talk to the the person who
sit near listening and and
they're brand new to this whole idea and
they've been diagnosed with
some sort of cancer or their mother or
their friend or a family member
talk to them yeah so uh in fact I I
wrote it down the great tragedy is that
they hear what I say
they read my papers they go on they hear
the YouTube videos and then they go to
their oncologist and the guy says I
never heard of this I never heard about
a Warburg uh it must if I've heard of
Otto Warburg yeah well a lot of them
haven't so uh and glue and the other
thing musician the other thing we have
we hear all the time at top medical
schools glucose has nothing to do with
cancer
I mean that amazing when we when we use
glucose to to diagnose cancer you know
it's the foundation of the of the you
know test we use to diagnose cancer of
the Pet Scan you know based on glucose
metabolism and yet we turn around and
say well glucose has nothing to do with
it yeah I mean I can't figure it out and
then the guys that are getting radiated
they they're told to take in as much
sugar as you possibly can because you
won't lose weight God uh uh and I'm
saying wow cancer cells are fat and
happy they're loving that they're loving
the standard of care you know uh what do
you do you you burn out somebody you you
give them all this poison and then you
pour glucose on top of it I mean it's
like nuts
um and I don't know what to do because
the cancer patients call me up and they
say my physician threw me out of the
office I said I wanted I wanted
metabolic therapy and the guy got so
angry he said go somewhere else so uh uh
we have a plan we have it based on hard
science but we and I don't want to blame
there's so many Physicians that are so
good people they want to know about it
but they've never had the training in
medical school to know about this
um they're procedural they're studied on
procedures and and and and things
written and but you do this way you do
that way they're not known they're not
trained to know how to use food as
medicine or understand uh the metabolic
origins of the very disease they're
they're they're working with so so there
has to be a a complete retraining or or
re-education of the practitioners to
know how to apply this to their patients
why should a cancer patient come in and
tell the physician I want metabolic
therapy and the physicist says I never
heard of it or it doesn't work I mean
this is nuts I'm going to give you
radiation poisonous chemicals no no no
no no this has to change and how long it
takes to change I don't know so the ques
the answer uh to your question Jack is
that is that it's a tragedy uh all these
people get fired up and they want to do
metabolic therapy and then when they go
to they need a practitioner so that's
why uh Dr claffey and others they want
the knowledge and it's not only that
Matthew uh Phillips from New Zealand and
we have the the group from turkey and we
have another group all these guys are
learning real fast on how to do
metabolic therapy and we're writing up a
treatment protocol as we speak so that
it will be a road map and a guide so
clinicians can adapt but then the other
on the other hand if you do something
that's not sanctioned by the standard of
care they could risk losing their
license right so it's the system itself
yeah that's holding this back okay the
system itself is not flexible and
standards of care as I said over and
over again should have never been
written in Granite they should be
modified when something new comes along
and one of the things that really
baffles me is we have scientific
evidence surviving patients uh we have
all this and yet there's such a
resistance on the part of the
establishment to embrace it if I had if
I developed a drug in my lab that can do
what metabolic therapy can do uh oh that
you'd say you cured cancer this is the
this is the best thing in the world they
oh they would be just running over each
other to get this drug but it can happen
but it's not happening from a drug it's
happening from an entire physiological
uh change and the the body is a healing
machine the body can heal itself if you
give it the opportunity don't stand in
the way of the body's ability to heal we
target cancer cells by taking away the
fuel needed for their existence and we
allow the normal cells of the body to
heal this this situation give their give
the body the opportunity metabolic
therapy does that radiation and chemo
does not do that you know but I don't I
don't think that's very ambiguous that
that sounds pretty straightforward I
think I understand that yeah I think
most people who are not locked into the
system understand it the system is
preventing us from moving forward so I
don't know how are we trying to I'm
trying to find find the quote and I
can't remember who it was who said it
but the gist of it was it's hard to get
a man to understand something when his
paycheck depends paycheck requires him
to not understand it that was Sinclair
Lewis Sin Claire Lewis yeah yeah who
said that and that's the truth because I
had somebody tell me one time that if we
did this we'd have to close half the
hospitals in the country and I said why
he said well radiation Revenue brings in
the most revenue for all these other
things that don't make as much money and
if we stop irradiating people we're
gonna have to close the hospital I said
what about the patience the patient
doesn't have any say in this so um It's
that kind of thing so but that's okay if
metabolic if some entrepreneur can
figure out a business model for
metabolic therapy I don't really care my
care is how do we save the lives of all
these patients that are dying needlessly
suffering immensely from a system that's
inflexible in in uh adapting another
approach to management and I find that
most cancer patients would like this
because For the First Time they're asked
to participate in their own healing
process and they we have to have and
then we have fights between it's it's
tragic I can tell you I could I mean the
patient wants it the other members of
the family say oh no he's nuts the
oncologist says no no so we have no
cohesion between the advice of the
oncologists and then we have
contradictions within the family oh no
go go to him they have a good reputation
peripheral wise look at why don't you
look and see how many survivors and then
if we have all these cancer survivors
people say oh we have we have millions
of cancer survivors and that's true but
every almost every one of those people
has has paid a significant price for
that survival they have hormonal
imbalances digestive imbalance nor
psychiatric problems they didn't get out
of that scot-free they are but metabolic
therapy you emerge from the treatment
healthier than you were and besides you
get rid of your diabetes just like you
get rid of your high blood pressure your
hypertension oh by the way your cancer
is gone as well oh this is terrible this
is like the this is dangerous you mean
you're getting rid of all these you're
getting rid of all these chronic
diseases along with your cancer I mean
you can't have that this is just
fascinating we had Chris Palmer on a
couple of months ago are you familiar
with Chris's work I've heard him I I
don't um he's a he's a psychiatrist
um doing research he's in uh runs the
psychiatric right across town from you
actually Harvard he's in Boston yeah and
and he he States flat out all brain
dysfunction
is metabolic dysfunction yeah and he he
had he's been treating these these folks
with brain disorders that were
considered
utterly intractable strictly manage them
bipolar disorder schizophrenia I can't
remember what all but he had he had a
patient
who came to him and said hey Doc I see
you lost a lot of weight can you help me
yeah and Chris had lost weight by take
by doing uh getting into ketosis
metabolic and he said yeah I'll help you
and all he was trying to do was help his
patient lose weight yeah and after
several weeks in ketosis his
schizophrenia disappears
I I agree it all it keeps coming it it's
all coming back to the same foundational
fundamental
problem that I I guess has the same
solution I'm I'm
I get a little wound up here right yeah
well no I I agree I I think you're right
um uh you know if we're taking in food
items that are nutritionally imbalanced
chemicals all kinds of chemicals the
brain is a is a biochemical machine like
many other organs a neurotransmitter
synthesis and release can be disrupted
by all kinds of metabolic perturbations
leading to Neuropsychiatric problems
behavioral issues uh hyper
behavioral stuff and and a lot of it uh
is related to imbalances and where do
those imbalances come from they come
from what we're eating uh we're eating
stuff now that is uh very very different
for from the from the uh million years
two million years that we existed as a
species only since the Neolithic period
did we start growing our own food and
producing large amounts of of uh glucose
and and then we modified with technology
uh how to how to maximize the the
glucose I mean glucose is sweet we've
always wanted glucose but if you look at
the brain light up when you eat glucose
It's Like Cocaine for crying out loud I
mean so a lot of us are addicted to
glucose and how you know that try not
eating for three days and see what
happens or try eating a diet that has
zero carb just eat fish a few vegetables
a meat or whatever no carbs all of a
sudden man you're you're you're you
don't know you're looking around you say
what the hell is going on here you know
it's Twitchy huh yeah until your body
realizes that it's not coming and then
you enter into this new Zone where
you're recognized now you're back like
we were in the Paleolithic period uh but
don't forget Paleolithic period for us
was very dangerous we didn't have
antibiotics you get gored by an animal
or cut you die from an infection
um but they weren't dying from cancer
the the the problems were external to
our bodies yeah yeah yeah so
um and and so the Paleolithic approach
is just trying to get us back into that
uh situation the the latest paper we had
come out of Greece
um uh an advanced lung cancer non-small
cell lung cancer patient uh who had
standard care in the tumor continued to
progress my my colleague Dr athanasis
evangelio put him on a ketogenic
Mediterranean diet uh uh as long as you
keep your blood sugar low and your
ketones high you can do that with any
variety of different kinds of foods well
this guy's out 11 years now uh and he
was supposed to be dead years ago he got
on and he published all the stuff this
guy is eating his blood sugar his blood
ketones so it doesn't have to be such a
a Draconian
um type of ketogenic diet and that's
another thing they throw in your face
all the time oh yeah you can do it with
a ketogenic diet but nobody he can do
that because it's too harsh and you know
all this kind of crap well this guy's
doing really well in a Mediterranean
ketogen Pablo Kelly eats the big
Tomahawk rib eyes you know I mean it's
like and so does uh Dr uh uh
claphy I guess he's he's he's a big meat
guy right the big carnivore so um then
you get the vegan guys so you do the
talk with oh meat's the worst thing you
can eat you know you got to eat
vegetables all the time uh but you can
still get into ketosis if you want to
eat vegetables then the other guy comes
along you got to eat rib eyes all day
long you know you can get into ketones
with it so I I don't balance I don't
care what anything anybody eats as long
as they can get it into a low glucose
Ketone index we call that the cancer
management index as long as the blood
sugar gets low we published the paper on
this and you use keto Mojo or any of
these blood and people can take their
own and know what zone they're in and if
you stay in the zone you're not going to
get any of these for the most part
you're going to be so everybody's
running around looking fit keeping their
are keeping their body in the so-called
glucose Ketone Zone index so we
published this and people know about it
now they can take charge so you ask me
what's the best way to just measure your
gki periodically and if you're if you're
in the zone you're going to be healthier
mitochondria are going to be healthy if
you're out of the Zone get back into the
Zone but you don't stay in the zone all
the time Dominic D'Agostino I don't know
if you know Dom D'Agostino he's a big
keto guys the keto Guru he's always in
therapeutic ketosis you know and he
worked out with Wayne Johnson the movie
actor you know they look the same they
got these giant muscles and and they're
always uh looking super fit and Dom is
always in ketosis so he has a diet
lifestyle that keeps him in a
Paleolithic uh kind of state and I'm not
saying everybody could do what dominic
does but Dominic is uh is really very
very healthy he's done a lot of podcasts
on ketosis and all this kind of stuff he
publishes papers with me you know we
have a we have a a good group but but
yeah so you keep your mitochondria
healthy uh use the glucose Ketone index
or the the cancer index we call it now
you know the cancer management index you
can call it the happy index you can call
it a lot of different things but it is a
quantitative marker of your blood
glucose to ketones measured with a
little finger prick so you have to it's
like what a diabetic diabetic would do
but this is telling you your path to
health so you keep your gki low uh and
then you stay in this Zone and your
mitochondria gets super healthy and if
your mitochondria healthy you're going
to avoid all these chronic diseases I
mean that's just the way it is so uh you
have a clear path you just have to know
what to do and how to do it
and and do you um you know think that
this is as effective as a preventative
strategy as it is as a treatment
strategy I think it's both yeah I mean
uh yeah but most people
don't do prevention
um you know I'm Gonna Roll the Dice I'm
gonna eat this and I'm gonna not
exercise and I'm just gonna do this or
that and I I'm just gonna hope I don't
get cancer but or or diabetes or or all
these other things that you can get but
now now you have the disease what are
you going to do for me okay well virta
health also created by some people I
know
um Jeff volack and Finney and and some
other guys they're curing type 2
diabetes using metabolic therapy no
drugs so uh you can man I think you can
manage cancer quite effectively uh uh um
Alzheimer's Alzheimer's disease uh you
got to get in earlier you gotta you
gotta know whether you're at risk for
Alzheimer's disease so knowing
biomarkers in the blood can sometimes
put like this apoe4 if you're a a
homozygous for the marker apoe4 uh that
puts you at risk later in life for
Contracting Alzheimer's disease so
knowing that early in your your life you
could then possibly recognize and how am
I going to keep my neurons healthy and
as I said the neurons stay healthy as
long as the mitochondria and the neurons
are are themselves uh working well
without reactive oxygen species and
that's the beauty of burning ketones it
actually reduces the amount of of
reactive oxygen species thereby reducing
uh chronic inflammatory damage so you're
essentially delaying entropy entropy is
disorder or the second law of
Thermodynamics we're all going to die
the thing of it is some of us die sooner
than others and and what you're going to
do is just delay the inevitable but if
you can delay the inevitable at a high
quality of life I don't think there's
anything wrong with that uh so so
metabolic therapy is a form of delaying
entropy disorder and maintaining a
higher quality of life for a longer
period period of time and if you know
what to do you are the in charge of your
own destiny so you're in charge of your
own soul on this planet if you have the
if you have the the the instructions of
what you can do now people say I know
what I should do but I just can't do it
okay but that's your personal choice you
know um but some people get onto this
and they say listen this is my new my
new way of living and that doesn't mean
you can't have wine it doesn't mean you
can't have beer or whiskey or pizza or
jelly donuts you just have to know that
if you do that stuff all the time it's
probably going to increase entropy and
have you exit the planet a little
earlier than you should but um but other
people if they have the knowledge and
know what to do and how to do it you
know a lot of I find a lot of people
like it they say whoa now I know what to
do let me go after it so um so yeah this
kind of knowledge is is power and it
gives people an understanding of what's
happening so their diseases are within
their control and and I think uh that's
powerful I think that's very important I
I I love that that your your diseases
are within your control yeah you don't
have to go have an expert
I I could go on and on and on I I don't
want to rant uh well Dr Seyfried I am
going to direct people to your website I
think
tomseafood.com I don't have a website
is that not yours no no it's it's it
should be my just my biology profile on
the on the on the Boston well is it a
website yeah tomsefree.com it's got tons
of stuff of your tons of years
right there is it is it is it on the
University uh page or is it somewhere
this particular one is not I saw the the
BC page as well yeah I came to uh I just
looked at tomseyfried.com really and
that led me to various uh really that's
new to me
[Laughter]
I got to make sure things are right on
it cancer is a mitochondrial metabolic
disease selected uh media we've got uh
your press pulse video which I was that
that one blue okay so now look it up you
know I said crazy people I know a lot of
people are doing stuff out there I you
know I'm spending all my time in the lab
doing uh doing the research and then you
guys come on invite me and I can tell
you what's going on uh I appreciate that
yeah so uh and I think the word gets out
quite quite effectively it kind of
spreads well that's what we're doing
here that's we're we're going to spread
the word yeah yeah well that's great all
right well Phil
great conversation uh certainly uh look
forward to uh continuing it in the
future as well and I really want to
thank you for all the great work that
you've done uh over so many years you
know that that uh that then people like
myself can actually you know get out to
the clinic and and help people
um it really gives us a foundation for
being able to help people in a
meaningful way yeah yeah well thank you
very much I I hope it uh I hope this
continues and once we get our patient
trials uh which we're starting small
groups of people uh and we publish I
published the case reports with some of
my colleagues and once we have the
protocols we'll start to see Farm many
many more people uh improving from from
metabolic therapy and then it's going to
be a grass fire and everybody's going to
have to adapt to it because it will
become the standard of care it's just a
matter of time
um but uh we're happy to be uh pushing
this forward or starting it let's put it
this way initiating this whole concept
and I think it eventually will so and
training will have to happen in the
medical schools uh so they're aware of
this so the Physicians are coming out at
least having some knowledge of what to
do and how to do it and I'm not saying
we get rid of all aspects of of of men
not not for sure because we need
surgeons uh we we definitely need a
non-invasive Imaging of of tumors we
need all that to let people know uh
whether metabolic therapy is actually
working or not so there's a lot of
diagnostic tools that have to be
continue to be part of the whole overall
process it's just the way that it's just
the way the patients are being treated
uh that needs to be uh modified so yeah
we would like them to live yeah yeah
that's the bottom line you're absolutely
right we we like them Keith high quality
of life and longer survival as I I would
say that's the mission that's that's our
goal right well and I think anybody
who's dealing with cancer would probably
say yes that's what I would I'm
interested in yeah I would like to
postpone the date of my exit from the
planet
you'd think so right very good this has
been I I just want you to know I am so
pleased so honored that I got to sit and
listen to you I wish I could sit and I
would take that that semester-long class
I I'm
I'm trained as a musician I don't have
the scientific background but I I find
that I'm just fascinated by chemistry
and to hear somebody who gets it and
really grocks the whole thing be able to
describe it oh it's so exciting to me so
I'm being a little bit of a fanboy here
but I don't apologize for it no thank
you very much I appreciate that I really
do thank you all right well for Dr
Thomas Seyfried and Dr Philip ovadia I'm
Jack healed I want to encourage those of
you who are who are have been in uh
intrigued by this conversation to go to
Phil's website ifixhearts.com and take
his metabolic Health quiz it's a real
fast and easy way to just kind of get a
quick measurement of where do I stand
where am I compared to where I could be
um and then of course in the show notes
I'll have contact information for all of
Dr C Freed's Publications and videos I
personally have found them absolutely
fascinating I didn't get a lot of work
done this morning because I was
was plowing through a lot of his videos
all right I think we're done let's call
it a wrap okay we'll see y'all next time
America is fat and sick and tired 88 of
Americans are metabolically unhealthy
and at risk of a sudden heart attack are
you one of them
go to
ifixhearts.co and take Dr ovadia's
metabolic Health quiz learn specific
steps you can take to reclaim your
health reduce your risk of heart attack
and stay off Dr ovadia's operating table